# Template: Masters Thesis
 This is a LaTeX template for a master's thesis, converted from a Word Document 
 provided by the professor of this course.

Useful Links:
* [LaTeX Document Structure](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Document_Structure)

## Included Files & Documents

### [IEEE Guidelines](./IEEE%20Guidelines)

Included are some documents that outline the IEEE guidelines.

### File: [`masters_thesis.tex`](./masters_thesis.tex)

This is the primary document.

Edit these lines to customize parts of the template with your own information:

```
% Set "My Thesis Title" to your paper title.
\newcommand{\paperTitle}{My Thesis Title}

% Set "Alison Major" to your own name.
\newcommand{\paperAuthor}{Alison Major}

% Set "Software Engineering" to your own concentration.
\newcommand{\authorConcentration}{Software Engineering}
```

### File: [`masters_thesis_slides.tex`](./masters_thesis_slides.tex)

This is the secondary document. It is a template for creating a PDF of slides to be used to present your thesis ideas.

We are using [Beamer](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Beamer) to format the document. Beamer is a powerful and flexible LaTeX class to create great looking presentations.

Edit these lines to customize parts of the template with your own information:

```
% The title of the paper.
\newcommand{\paperTitle}{My Thesis Title}

% The name of the author.
\newcommand{\paperAuthor}{Alison Major}

% The name of the author.
\newcommand{\authorInstitute}{Lewis University}
```

You can edit the theme used in these lines:

```
\usetheme{Madrid}
\usecolortheme{beaver}
```

There are a number of galleries available to review theme options. Here is the [gallery hosted by Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/gallery/tagged/presentation).

As with the main document, we also set the image location:

```
% Set graphics location
\graphicspath{ {Images/} }
```

The current year will be automatically populated.

### Folder: [`Images/`](./Images)

Place any images for your document here. This is where the graphics plugin will look for images. This directory is set in the `masters_thesis.tex` file:

```
% Set the path to keep images
\graphicspath{ {Images/} }
```

### File: [`abstract.tex`](./abstract.tex)

This is for your paper's abstract.

### File: [`bibliography.bib`](./bibliography.bib)

This is where you will add your sources.

See [Bibliography management with bibtex](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Bibliography_management_with_bibtex) for formatting.

### Folder: `Ancillary Pages`

**You do not need to edit these pages.**

This folder contains pages that are templated and then populated with the info that you customized in `masters_thesis.tex` (paper title, author name, author concentration).

* [`_title_page.tex`](./Ancillary%20Pages/_title_page.tex)
* [`_signature_page.tex`](./Ancillary%20Pages/_signature_page.tex)

### File: `IEEEtran.cls`

**Do not edit this file.**

This is used for styling to IEEE standards.

---

## Recommendations

I prefer using the editor [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

On my Mac, I installed **MacTex** without the GUI. Then you need to update the packages.

```shell
# macOS MacTex Install
brew cask install mactex-no-gui

# Updating the packages
sudo tlmgr update --self && sudo tlmgr update --all
```

Then install the **LaTeX Workshop** plugin from the Visual Studio Code Marketplace.

```shell
# In the VS Code command pallete:
ext install latex-workshop
```

For more information on setup, please check out **[Writing LaTeX Documents In Visual Studio Code With LaTeX Workshop](https://medium.com/@rcpassos/writing-latex-documents-in-visual-studio-code-with-latex-workshop-d9af6a6b2815)**.
